Hello World
# Hello Java File!

Java runs on different platforms, but programmers write it the same way. Let’s explore some rules for writing Java.

In the last exercise, we saw the file **HelloWorld.java**. Java files have a **.java** extension. Some programs are one file, others are hundreds of files!

Inside **HelloWorld.java**, we had a _class_:

```java
public class HelloWorld {
 
}
```

We’ll talk about classes more in the future, but for now think of them as a **single** concept.

The `HelloWorld` concept is: Hello World Printer. Other class concepts could be: Bicycle, or: Savings Account.

We marked the domain of this concept using curly braces: `{}`. Syntax inside the curly braces is part of the class.

Each file has one primary class named after the file. Our class name: `HelloWorld` and our file name: **HelloWorld**. Every word is capitalized.

Inside the class we had a `main()` _method_ which lists our program tasks:

```java
public static void main(String[] args) {
 
}
```

Like classes, we used curly braces to mark the beginning and end of a method.

`public`, `static`, and `void` are syntax we’ll learn about in future lessons. `String[] args` is a placeholder for information we want to pass into our program. This syntax is necessary for the program to run but more advanced than we need to explore at the moment.

Our program also displayed the text `"Hello World"` on the screen. This was accomplished using a print statement:

```java
System.out.println("Hello World");
```

We’ll learn more about print statements in the next exercise!

---

Exercise:

```java
public class HelloYou {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    
    
  }
}
```

**1.** The text editor has a file, **HelloYou.java**, that contains a `HelloYou` class with a `main()` method.

Inside `main()`, add a statement which prints `Hello someName!`, with **your** name replacing `someName`. Make sure to end the statement with a semicolon.

For example, if your name were “Maria,” the program would print `Hello Maria!`.

Hint: Let’s say we want to print `Howdy World!`.
Place that message **inside** double quotes: `"Howdy World!"`.
Then place the quoted message inside the parentheses of `System.out.println()`.
```java
System.out.println("Howdy World!");
```
The `println` has the letter `l` as in “laser”, not the number `1`.
**You must use double quotes!**

```java
public class HelloYou {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    System.out.println("Hello Hayden");
  }
}
```