Hello World
# Print Statements

Let’s take a closer look at this instruction from our previous program:

```java
System.out.println("Hello World");
```

Print statements output information to the screen (also referred to as the output terminal). Let’s break this line of code down a little more. Don’t worry if some of the terms here are new to you. We’ll dive into what all of these are in much more detail later on!

-   `System` is a built-in Java class that contains useful tools for our programs.
-   `out` is short for “output”.
-   `println` is short for “print line”.

We can use `System.out.println()` whenever we want the program to create a new line on the screen after outputting a value:

```java
System.out.println("Hello World");
System.out.println("Today is a great day to code!");
```

After `"Hello World"` is printed, the output terminal creates a new line for the next statement to be outputted. This program will print each statement on a new line like so:

```java
Hello World
Today is a great day to code!
```

We also can output information using `System.out.print()`. Notice that we’re using `print()`, not `println()`. Unlike `System.out.println()`, this type of print statement outputs everything on the same line. For example:

```java
System.out.print("Hello ");
System.out.print("World");
```

The above code will have the following output:

```java
Hello World
```

In this example, if you were to use `print()` or `println()` again, the new text will print immediately after `World` on the same line. It’s important to remember where you left your program’s “cursor”. If you use `println()` the cursor is moved to the next line. If you use `print()` the cursor stays on the same line.

**Note:** Going forward, all exercises will use `System.out.println()` to output values.

---

Exercise:

```java
public class HideAndSeek {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    System.out.println("Let's play hide and seek.");


  }
}
```

**1.** Inside `main()` and underneath the print statement `System.out.println("Let's play hide and seek.");`, output the following two statements using `System.out.print()`:

-   `"Three..."`
-   `"Two..."`

Hint: Be sure to use `System.out.print()`. Your code should look similar to the following example:
```
System.out.print("First statement");
System.out.print("Second statement");
```
Make sure the text in your print statements matches the instructions exactly. Capitalization, punctuation, and spaces matter!

```java
public class HideAndSeek {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    System.out.println("Let's play hide and seek.");
    System.out.print("Three...");
    System.out.print("Two...");
  }
}
```

**2.** Underneath your previous statements, output the following two text values using `System.out.println()`:

-   `"One..."`
-   `"Ready or not, here I come!"`

Hint: This prompt asks you to use `System.out.println()` to output two statements.
Make sure the text in your print statements matches the instructions exactly. Capitalization, punctuation, and spaces matter!

```java
public class HideAndSeek {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    System.out.println("Let's play hide and seek.");
    System.out.print("Three...");
    System.out.print("Two...");
    System.out.println("One...");
    System.out.println("Ready or not, here I come!");
  }
}
```

