Hello World
# Compilation: Creating Executables

Compilation helped us catch an error. Now that we’ve corrected the file, let’s walk through a successful compilation.

As a reminder, we can compile a **.java** file from the terminal with the command:

```bash
javac Whales.java
```

If the file compiles successfully, this command produces an _executable_ class: **FileName.class**. Executable means we can run this program from the terminal.

We run the executable with the command:

```bash
java Whales
```

Note that we leave off the **.class** part of the filename.

Here’s a full compilation cycle as an example:

```java
// within the file: Welcome.java
public class Welcome {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    System.out.println("Welcome to Codecademy's Java course!");
  }
}
```

We have one file: **Welcome.java**. We compile with the command:

```bash
javac Welcome.java
```

The terminal shows no errors, which indicates a successful compilation.

We now have two files:

1.  **Welcome.java**, our original file with Java syntax.
2.  **Welcome.class**, our compiled file with Java bytecode, ready to be executed by the Java Virtual Machine.

We can execute the compiled class with the command:

```bash
java Welcome
```

The following is printed to the screen:

```
Welcome to Codecademy's Java course!
```

---

Exercise:

```java
public class Compiling {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    
    System.out.println("Java is a class-based language.");
    System.out.println("Java classes have a 'main' method.");
    System.out.println("Java statements end with a semicolon.");

    System.out.println("Programming is... fun!");
    
  }
}
```

**1.** Let’s compile and execute our program!

Run the `ls` command in the terminal to see the uncompiled **.java** file.

Press the green Check Work button after you finish each checkpoint.

Hint: The `l` in `ls` is the letter l, not the number 1.
After you type `ls` in the terminal and press enter, it should look like:
```bash
$ ls
Compiling.java
```
That means there’s currently a file named **Compiling.java** inside the folder.

```bash
ls
```

**2.** Compile the file from the terminal!

Hint: We compile files with the command:
```bash
javac FileName.java
```
If I wanted to compile a file named **Dog.java**, I would run:
```bash
javac Dog.java
```
The file name here is **Compiling.java**.

```bash
javac Compiling.java
```

**3.** Enter `ls` again to see the new **.class** file.

Run the executable file from the terminal!

Hint: We can run Java files from the terminal by using `java` and the name of the executable class.
For example, if I wanted to run `Dog.class`, I would enter `java Dog`.

```bash
java Compiling
```

