Hello World
# Java Review: Putting It All Together

In this lesson, we’ve started writing our first programs in Java.

We’ve also learned rules and guidelines for how to write Java programs:

-   Java programs have at least one class and one `main()` method.
    -   Each class represents one real-world idea.
    -   The `main()` method runs the tasks of the program.
-   Java comments add helpful context to human readers.
-   Java has whitespace, curly braces, and semicolons.
    -   Whitespace is for humans to read code easily.
    -   Curly braces mark the scope of a class and method.
    -   Semicolons mark the end of a statement.
-   Java is a compiled language.
    -   Compiling catches mistakes in our code.
    -   Compilers transform code into an executable class.

---

Exercise:

```java

```

**1.** The text editor holds an empty file named **Review.java**. Fill it in!

Define a `public class` named `Review`.

Use opening and closing curly braces for the scope of the class.

Remember, no semicolons for classes or methods!

Hint: We define a class in Java like so:
```java
public class MyClass {  // class code goes here}
```

```java
public class Review {
}
```

**2.** This code produces an error because Java programs need a `main()` method.

Define the `main()` method **within the curly braces** of the `Review` class.

Hint: Every Java program has one `main()` method with the following signature:
```java
public static void main(String[] args) {  
	// method code goes here
}
```

```java
public class Review {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
  }
}
```

**3.** Inside of the curly braces for the `main()` method, write `The main method executes the tasks of the class` as a single-line comment.

Hint: We create a single-line comment like so:
```java
// Just a brief comment
```

```java
public class Review {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    //The main method executes the tasks of the class
  }
}
```

**4.** Below the comment, write a statement that prints the following: `My first Java program from scratch!`.

Hint: We can print a statement with the following syntax:
```java
System.out.println("Blah blah blah");
```

```java
public class Review {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    //The main method executes the tasks of the class
    System.out.println("My first Java program from scratch!");
  }
}
```