### Print Line
`System.out.println()` can print to the console:

-   `System` is a class from the core library provided by Java
-   `out` is an object that controls the output
-   `println()` is a method associated with that object that receives a single argument

```Java
System.out.println("Hello, world!");
// Output: Hello, world!
```

---

### Comments
Comments are bits of text that are ignored by the compiler. They are used to increase the readability of a program.

-   Single line comments are created by using `//`.
-   Multi-line comments are created by starting with `/*` and ending with `*/`.

```Java
// I am a single line comment!

/*And I am a
multi-line comment!*/
```

---

### `main()` Method
In Java, every application must contain a `main()` method, which is the entry point for the application. All other methods are invoked from the `main()` method.

The signature of the method is `public static void main(String[] args) { }`. It accepts a single argument: an array of elements of type `String`.

```Java
public class Person {

	public static void main(String[] args) {

		System.out.println("Hello, world!");

	}

}
```

---

### Classes
A _class_ represents a single concept.

A Java program must have one class whose name is the same as the program filename.

In the example, the `Person` class must be declared in a program file named **Person.java**.

```Java
public class Person {

	public static void main(String[] args) {

		System.out.println("I am a person, not a computer.");

	}

}
```

---

### Compiling Java
In Java, when we compile a program, each individual class is converted into a **.class** file, which is known as byte code.

The JVM (Java virtual machine) is used to run the byte code.

```Java
# Compile the class file:
javac hello.java

# Execute the compiled file:
java hello
```

---

### Whitespace
Whitespace, including spaces and newlines, between statements is ignored.

```Java
System.out.println("Example of a statement");

System.out.println("Another statement");

// Output:
// Example of a statement
// Another statement
```

---

### Statements
In Java, a statement is a line of code that executes a task and is terminated with a `;`.

```Java
System.out.println("Java Programming ☕️");
```