### PHP extends keyword

In PHP, to define a class that inherits from another, we use the keyword `extends`:

```
class ChildClass extends ParentClass {}
```

The newly defined class can access members with `public` and `protected` visibility from the base class, but cannot access `private` members.

The newly defined class can also redefine or override class members.

```
// Dog class inherits from Pet class. class Dog extends Pet {  function bark() {    return "woof";  }}
```

### PHP Constructor Method

A constructor method is one of several magic methods provided by PHP. This method is automatically called when an object is instantiated. A constructor method is defined with the special method name `__construct`. The constructor can be used to initialize an object’s properties.

```
// constructor with no arguments:class Person {  public $favorite_color;  function __construct() {    $this->favorite_color = "blue";  }} // constructor with arguments:class Person {  public $favorite_color;  function __construct($color) {    $this->favorite_color = $color;  }}
```

### PHP class

In PHP, classes are defined using the `class` keyword.

Functions defined within a class become methods and variables within the class are considered properties.

There are three levels of visibility for class members:

-   `public` (default) - accessible from outside of the class
-   `protected` - only accessible within the class or its descendants
-   `private` - only accessible within the defining class

Members can be defined to be static:

-   Static members are accessed using the Scope Resolution Operator (`::`)

Classes are instantiated into objects using the `new` keyword. Members of an object are accessed using the Object Operator (`->`).

```
// Test class class Test {  public $color = "blue";  protected $shape = "sphere";  private $quantity = 10;  public static $number = 42;  public static function returnHello() {    return "Hello";  }} // instantiate new object$object = new Test(); // only color can be accessed from the instanceecho $object->color; # Worksecho $object->shape; # Failsecho $object->quantity; # Failsecho $object->number; # Fails // we use the static class to access numberecho Test::$number;
```