Languages for Web Development
# JavaScript Functions

In the last exercise, you started to think about two key building blocks of JavaScript: functions and events. Let’s review:

-   Functions allow us to write a chunk of code once that can be reused over and over.
-   Events allow JavaScript to respond to user behaviors, like the user hovering their mouse over an HTML element or resizing their window.

Events and functions combine to give JavaScript the ability to create interactive experiences. When an event is fired, a function is executed. This pattern is used again and again in web development to create interactive websites.

---

Exercise:

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css">

  </head>

  <body>
      <button >Repaint!</button>
  </body>
  
      <script>
        function getRandomColor(){
          let letters = '0123456789ABCDEF';
          let color = '#';
          for (let i = 0; i < 6; i++) {
            color += letters[Math.floor(Math.random() * 16)];
          }
          return color;
        }
        function changeColor(){
          let newColor = getRandomColor();
          document.body.style.backgroundColor = newColor;
        }
    </script>
  
</html>
```

**1.** First, let’s take a look at the JavaScript in the **index.html** file.

The JavaScript code is between the `<script>` tags. This tag alerts the browser that the page contains JavaScript and separates the JavaScript code from the HTML.

Find the JavaScript function `changeColor()`. This function chooses a color from a list of colors.

How does that happen?

First, the `getRandomColor()` function generates a random series of numbers and letters to create a new [hexadecimal color code](https://www.mathsisfun.com/hexadecimal-decimal-colors.html).

It then saves the new color under the name `newColor`.

```js
let newColor = getRandomColor();
```

On the next line, the `document` keyword accesses the page’s background color and sets it equal to the new color.

```js
document.body.style.backgroundColor = newColor;
```

Click the **Run** button to move on to the next checkpoint to see how we can let a user change the color!

Hint: It’s okay if you don’t understand every line of code—this is just a demonstration of what JavaScript can do!

**2.** The next step is to connect the `changeColor()` JavaScript function with an event, so that when we click the `Repaint!` button, it changes the background color.

An event is something that can happen in a browser, like clicking or hovering with your mouse.

HTML attributes can set events, where the **name** of the attribute is the event and the **value** of the attribute is the JavaScript function that we want to execute.

In this case, the name of the event is `onclick` and we can invoke the function by calling `"changeColor()"`.

Paste this code into the opening tag of the button element: `onclick="changeColor()"`.

Hint: Copy and paste `onclick="changeColor()"` inside the opening `<button>` tag so that the tag now reads:

`html <button onclick="changeColor()">`

```html
<html>
  <head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="style.css">

  </head>

  <body>
      <button onclick="changeColor()">Repaint!</button>
  </body>
  
      <script>
        function getRandomColor(){
          let letters = '0123456789ABCDEF';
          let color = '#';
          for (let i = 0; i < 6; i++) {
            color += letters[Math.floor(Math.random() * 16)];
          }
          return color;
        }
        function changeColor(){
          let newColor = getRandomColor();
          document.body.style.backgroundColor = newColor;
        }
    </script>
  
</html>
```

**3.** Let’s test out the functionality of the code that we just added. When you click the “Repaint!” button, the background color of the site should be reset at random!

When you’re ready, click **Run** again and move on to the next exercise.

