Learn Java: Methods
# Defining Methods

If we were to define a `checkBalance()` method for the Savings Account example we talked about earlier, it would look like the following:

```java
public void checkBalance(){
  System.out.println("Hello!");
  System.out.println("Your balance is " + balance);
}
```

The first line, `public void checkBalance()`, is the method declaration. It gives the program some information about the method:

-   `public` means that other classes can access this method. We will learn more about that later in the course.
-   The `void` keyword means that there is no specific output from the method. We will see methods that are not `void` later in this lesson, but for now, all of our methods will be `void`.
-   `checkBalance()` is the name of the method.

Every method has its own unique _method signature_ which is comprised of the method’s name and its parameter type. In this example, the method signature is `checkBalance()`.

The two print statements are inside the _body_ of the method, which is defined by the curly braces: `{` and `}`.

Anything we can do in our `main()` method, we can do in other methods! All of the Java tools you know, like the math and comparison operators, can be used to make interesting and useful methods.

**Keep Reading: AP Computer Science A Students**

`checkBalance()` is considered a non-static method because its signature does not include the keyword `static` like the `main()` method does. We’ll learn more about non-static methods later in this course.

---

Exercise:

```java
public class Store {
  // instance fields
  String productType;
  
  // constructor method
  public Store(String product) {
    productType = product;
  }
  
  // advertise method
  
  // main method
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    
  }
}
```

**1.** In between the constructor and the `main()` method, add a method called `advertise()` to the `Store` class. It should be accessible by other classes, and should have no output.

You can leave the body of the method empty.

Hint: If we wanted to write a method called `bark()` that is accessible by other classes and produces no output, we would use syntax like:
```java
public void bark(){
 
}
```

```java
public class Store {
  // instance fields
  String productType;
  
  // constructor method
  public Store(String product) {
    productType = product;
  }
  
  // advertise method
  public void advertise(){
    
  }
  
  // main method
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    
  }
}
```

**2.** Inside the `advertise()` method, type two print statements. They should result in the printouts:

```shell
"Come spend some money!"
"Selling productType!"
```

where `productType` is replaced with the value in the variable `productType`.

However, we’re not going to see these Strings printed out yet! We’ll see in the next exercise how we can make these printouts actually run.

Hint: If we wanted to print `The name of this dog is dogName!` with `dogName` replaced by the value in the `dogName` variable, we would write:
```java
System.out.println("The name of this dog is " + dogName + "!");
```

Make sure to write your print statements within the curly braces of the `advertise()` method!

```java
public class Store {
  // instance fields
  String productType;
  
  // constructor method
  public Store(String product) {
    productType = product;
  }
  
  // advertise method
  public void advertise(){
    System.out.println("Come spend some money!");
    System.out.println("Selling " + productType + "!");
  }
  
  // main method
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    
  }
}
```

