Learn Java: Methods
# Calling Methods

When we add a non-static method to a class, it becomes available to use on an object of that class. In order to have our methods get executed, we must _call_ the method on the object we created.

Let’s add a non-static `startEngine()` method to our `Car` class from the previous lesson. Inside the `main()` method, we’ll call `startEngine()` on the `myFastCar` object:

```java
class Car {
 
  String color;
 
  public Car(String carColor) {
    color = carColor;
  }
 
  public void startEngine() {
    System.out.println("Starting the car!");
    System.out.println("Vroom!");
  }
 
  public static void main(String[] args){
    Car myFastCar = new Car("red");
    // Call a method on an object 
    myFastCar.startEngine();
    System.out.println("That was one fast car!");
  }
}
```

Let’s take a closer look at the method call:

```java
myFastCar.startEngine();
```

First, we reference our object `myFastCar`. Then, we use the _dot operator_ (`.`) to call the method `startEngine()`. Note that we must include parentheses `()` after our method name in order to call it.

If we run the above program, we will get the following output.

```shell
Starting the car!
Vroom!
That was one fast car!
```

Code generally runs in a top-down order where code execution starts at the top of a program and ends at the bottom of a program; however, methods are ignored by the compiler unless they are being called.

When a method is called, the compiler executes every statement contained within the method. Once all method instructions are executed, the top-down order of execution continues. This is why `Starting the car!` and `Vroom!` are outputted before `That was one fast car!`.

---

Exercise:

```java
public class Store {
  // instance fields
  String productType;
  
  // constructor method
  public Store(String product) {
    productType = product;
  }
  
  // advertise method
  public void advertise() {
		System.out.println("Selling " + productType + "!");
    System.out.println("Come spend some money!");
  }
  
  // main method
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    Store lemonadeStand = new Store("Lemonade");
    
  }
}
```

**1.** Last exercise, we defined a new method, `advertise()`, but we didn’t actually see it run.

We now have a Store class with `advertise()` defined.

Call the `advertise()` method on the `lemonadeStand` object in the `main()` method and see what the output is!

```java

```