### Syntax in C

The rules that dictate the correct format of code for a specific programming language are known as syntax.

Examples of syntax in C are:

-   All statements must end with a semicolon, `;`
-   Keywords and other code elements are case-sensitive

When compiling C code, an error will occur when the syntax of the code is incorrect.

```
// Statements must end in a semicolon (;)// correctprintf("Hello World!"); // errorprintf("Hello World!")  // Code elements are case sensitive// correctprintf("Hello World!"); // errorPRINTF("Hello World!");
```

### Escape Sequences

In C, an escape sequence is a non-visual character used within a string.

`\n` is an escape sequence that adds a newline to a string. `\t` is an escape sequence that adds a tab of spaces to a string.

```
// \n acts as a newline in a stringprintf("Hello\nWorld!"); // Outputs: Hello                         //          World! // \t acts as a tab in a stringprintf("Hello\tWorld!"); // Outputs: Hello    World!
```

### Comments in C

In C, comments are text within code that will be ignored by the compiler. They are used to document code.

Line comments begin with a double forward slash, `//`. All text after `//` will be part of the comment until a new line is reached.

Block comments begin with a forward slash and asterisk, `/*` and end with an asterisk and forward slash, `*/`. Block comments can span multiple lines as new lines are part of the comment.

```
// Comments /* This review content is about comments and how theycan be used to document code */ // This is a line comment /* This is ablock comment */
```

### Compiling C Code with `gcc`

`gcc` is an application used to compile C programs into an executable that can run on the target computer. `gcc` stands for GNU Compiler Collection.

`gcc` compiles C code using the code file as an unflagged command-line argument. The output executable file will be called `a.out`. The `-o` flag followed by some text can be used to designate the name of the output executable file.

```
gcc script.cgcc script.c -o myProgram
```