### What is an array?

An array is used to store many elements of the same type in contiguous blocks of memory

### Creating Uninitialized Arrays

An uninitialized array is created as follows:

```
type arr[array_size];
```

### Creating an Initialized Array

An initialized array is created as follows:

```
type arr[] = {element1, element2, element3, …};
```

### Accessing Array Elements

You can access the array element at index `idx` as follows:

```
arr[idx];
```

### First and Last Array Elements

The first and last elements in the array can be found at the following indices:

```
firstElement = arr[0];lastElement = arr[arraySize - 1];
```

### sizeof()

Array size can be found using the `sizeof()` function

### Iterating Through Arrays

Arrays can be iterated through using `while` loops or `for` loops.

### Invalid Array Access

Attempting to access or modify an element at an index greater than the length of the array will cause the program to behave unpredictably.

### Creating Multidimensional Arrays

Initialized and uninitialized multidimensional arrays are created as follows:

```
initializedMultArray = type arr[][dim2Size]…[dimNSize] = {{element1, element2,…},{element1, element2, …}, …};uninitializedMultArray = type arr[dim1Size][dim2Size]…[dimNSize];
```

### String Length

Arrays are static, therefore the length of a string cannot be modified.

### Accessing Characters in a String

Characters in a string can be accessed and modified using indices, the same technique used with arrays.

### Creating Strings

Strings can be created by initializing an array of `char`s.

### Null Character

All strings terminate with a null character (`'\0'`).

### strlen()

You can find the length of a string using the `strlen()` function.

### strcat()

Two strings can be concatenated using the `strcat()` function.

### strcpy()

A string can be copied into an empty `char` array (empty string) using the `strcpy()` function.