### Defining Structures With `struct`

Structures are defined with the `struct` keyword followed by the structure name. Inside the braces, member variables are declared but not initialized. The given code block defines a structure named `Person` with declared member variables `name` and `age`.

```
// `struct` keyword and structure namestruct Person{  // uninitialized member variables  char* name;  int age;};
```

### Initializing Structures With `struct`

Structure data types are initialized using the `struct` keyword with the defined structure type followed by the name of the variable. The given code block shows two ways to initialize `Person` type structures named `person1` and `person2`.

```
// `Person` structure declarationstruct Person{  char* name;  int age;}; // designated initialization with member variable namesstruct Person person1 = {.name = "Cosmo", .age = 36}; // implicit initialization following order of member variablesstruct Person person2 = {"George", 29}; 
```

### Custom Data Types With Structures

Structures allow the definition of custom data types that are used to represent complex data. Structure customization provides the flexibility to accurately model real-world data, giving you the ability to access and modify the data from a single defined variable.

### Grouping Data Types With Structures

Structures can group different data types together into a single, user-defined type. This differs from arrays which can only group the same data type together into a single type. The given code block defines a structure named `Person` with different basic data types as member variables.

```
// `Person` structure definitionstruct Person{  // member variables that vary in type  char* name;  int age;  char middleInitial;};
```

### Accessing Member Variables With Dot Notation

Initialized structure member variables can be accessed with the dot (`.`) operator. The given code block initializes a `Person` type named `person1` and accesses the `name` member variable within a `printf()` statement.

```
// `Person` structure declarationstruct Person{  // member variables  char* name;  int age;  char middleInitial;}; // initialization of `person1` struct Person person1 = {.name = "George", .age = 28, .middleInitial = "C"}; // accessing `name` in `person1`printf("My name is %s", person1.name); // OUTPUT: My name is George
```

### Structure Member Variables

The variables defined within a structure are known as member variables. The given code block defined a structure named `Person` with member variables `name` of type `char*`, and `age` of type `int`.

```
// Person structure declarationstruct Person{  // member variables  char* name;  int age;};
```

### Structure Type Pointers

Pointers to a structure can be defined using the `struct` keyword, the structure type, and the pointer (`*`) symbol. The memory address of an initialized structure can be accessed using the symbol (`&`). The given code block defines a pointer to a `Person` data type named `person1`.

```
// Person structure declarationstruct Person{  // member variables  char* name;  int age;}; // person1 initializationstruct Person person1 = {"George", 28}; // person1Pointer initializated to the memory address of person1struct Person* person1Pointer = &person1;
```

### Accessing Member Variables With Arrow Notiation

Member variables of a structure can be accessed using a pointer with arrow (`->`) notation. The given code block initializes a `Person` pointer type named `person1Pointer`. Inside the `printf()` statement, the `name` member variable of `person1` is accessed using arrow (`->`) notation.

```
// `Person` structure declarationstruct Person{  // member variables  char* name;  int age;}; // `person1` intialization struct Person person1 = {"Jerry", 29}; // `person1Pointer` intialization to memory address to `person1`struct Person* person1Pointer = &person1; // accessing `name` through `person1Pointer`printf("My name is %s", person1Pointer->name);// OUTPUT: My name is Jerry
```

### Passing Structures To Functions

Structures can be used as parameters of functions by using the `struct` keyword followed by the structure name in the function definition. The given code block defines a function signature named `myFunc()` with a `Person` parameter named `person1`.

```
// Person structure declarationstruct Person{  // member variables  char* name;  int age;}; // declaring Person type parametervoid myFunc(struct Person person1);
```

### Passing Structure Pointers To Functions

Structure pointers can be paramters of functions by using the `struct` keyword, the structure name, and the pointer symbol (`*`) in the function definition. The given code block defines a function signature named `myFunc()` with a `Person` pointer parameter named `person1Pointer`.

```
// Person structure declarationstruct Person{  // member variables  char* name;  int age;}; // Person pointer parameter declarationvoid myFunc(struct Person* person1);
```