Learn Java: Manipulating Variables
# Compound Assignment Operators

Sometimes, we need to adjust the value of a variable.

Imagine we’re working at a bake sale and want to keep track of how many cupcakes we have by creating a variable called `numCupcakes`:

```java
int numCupcakes = 12;
```

If we baked `8` more cupcakes, we know that we could update our variable using the `+` operator:

```java
numCupcakes = numCupcakes + 8; 
// Value is now 20
```

While this method works just fine, we had to write our variable `numCupcakes` twice. We can shorten this syntax by using a _compound assignment operator_.

Compound assignment operators perform an arithmetic operation on a variable and then reassigns its value. Using the `+=` compound assignment operator, we can rewrite our previous code like so:

```java
numCupcakes += 8; 
// Value is now 20
```

Now we only need to reference `numCupcakes` once.

We can use compound assignment operators for all of the arithmetic operators we’ve covered:

-   Addition (`+=`)
-   Subtraction (`-=`)
-   Multiplication (`*=`)
-   Division (`/=`)
-   Modulo (`%=`)

---

Exercise:

```java
public class BakeSale {
	public static void main(String[] args) {   
		int numCookies = 17;


    // Add your code above
    System.out.println(numCookies);
	}
}
```

**1.** You are also in charge of keeping track of how many cookies there are at the bake sale. This value is represented by the variable `numCookies`.

A customer comes and buys `3` cookies. Use the appropriate compound assignment operator to reflect this change.

Hint: You should use the `-=` compound assignment operator.

```java
public class BakeSale {
	public static void main(String[] args) {   
		int numCookies = 17;
	    numCookies -= 3;

	    // Add your code above
	    System.out.println(numCookies);
	}
}
```

**2.** Another customer buys half of the remaining cookies.

Use the appropriate compound assignment operator to reflect this change.

Hint: Use the `/=` compound assignment operator to divide the value of `numCookies` by `2`.

```java
public class BakeSale {
	public static void main(String[] args) {   
		int numCookies = 17;
	    numCookies -= 3;
	    numCookies /= 2;
	    // Add your code above
	    System.out.println(numCookies);
	}
}
```