### Destructor

For a C++ class, a _destructor_ is a special method that handles object destruction, generally focused on preventing memory leaks. Class destructors don’t take arguments as input and their names are always preceded by a tilde `~`.

```
City::~City() {   // Any final cleanup }
```

### Class Members

A class is comprised of class members:

-   _Attributes_, also known as member data, consist of information about an instance of the class.
-   _Methods_, also known as member functions, are functions that can be used with an instance of the class.

```
class City {   // Attribute  int population; public:  // Method  void add_resident() {    population++;  } };
```

### Constructor

For a C++ class, a _constructor_ is a special kind of method that enables control regarding how the objects of a class should be created. Different class constructors can be specified for the same class, but each constructor signature must be unique.

```
#include "city.hpp" class City {   std::string name;  int population; public:  City(std::string new_name, int new_pop); };
```

### Objects

In C++, an _object_ is an instance of a class that encapsulates data and functionality pertaining to that data.

```
City nyc;
```

### Class

A C++ class is a user-defined data type that encapsulates information and behavior about an object. It serves as a blueprint for future inherited classes.

```
class Person { };
```

### Access Control Operators

C++ classes have access control operators that designate the scope of class members:

-   `public`
-   `private`

`public` members are accessible everywhere; `private` members can only be accessed from within the same instance of the class or from friends classes.

```
class City {   int population;  public:  void add_resident() {     population++;  } private:  bool is_capital; };
```