### CSS Margin Collapse

CSS _margin collapse_ occurs when the top and bottom margins of blocks are combined into a single margin equal to the largest individual block margin.

Margin collapse only occurs with vertical margins, not for horizontal margins.

```
/* The vertical margins will collapse to 30 pixelsinstead of adding to 50 pixels. */.block-one {  margin: 20px;} .block-two {  margin: 30px;}
```

### CSS `auto` keyword

The value `auto` can be used with the property `margin` to horizontally center an element within its container. The `margin` property will take the width of the element and will split the rest of the space equally between the left and right margins.

```
div {  margin: auto;}
```

### Dealing with `overflow`

If content is too large for its container, the CSS `overflow` property will determine how the browser handles the problem.

By default, it will be set to `visible` and the content will take up extra space. It can also be set to `hidden`, or to `scroll`, which will make the overflowing content accessible via scroll bars within the original container.

```
small-block {  overflow: scroll;}
```

### Height and Width Maximums/Minimums

The CSS `min-width` and `min-height` properties can be used to set a minimum width and minimum height of an element’s box. CSS `max-width` and `max-height` properties can be used to set maximum widths and heights for element boxes.

```
/* Any element with class "column" will be at most 200 pixels wide, despite the width property value of 500 pixels. */ .column {  max-width: 200px;  width: 500px;}
```

### The `visibility` Property

The CSS `visibility` property is used to render `hidden` objects invisible to the user, without removing them from the page. This ensures that the page structure and organization remain unchanged.

```
.invisible-elements {  visibility: hidden;}
```

### The property `box-sizing` of CSS _box model_

The CSS _box model_ is a box that wraps around an HTML element and controls the design and layout. The property `box-sizing` controls which aspect of the box is determined by the `height` and `width` properties. The default value of this property is `content-box`, which renders the actual size of the element including the content box; but not the paddings and borders. The value `border-box`, on the other hand, renders the actual size of an element including the content box, paddings, and borders.

```
.container {  box-sizing: border-box;}
```

### CSS `box-sizing: border-box`

The value `border-box` of the `box-sizing` property for an element corresponds directly to the element’s total rendered size, including padding and border with the `height` and `width` properties.

The default value of the `border-box` property is `content-box`. The value `border-box` is recommended when it is necessary to resize the `padding` and `border` but not just the content. For instance, the value `border-box` calculates an element’s `height` as follows: `height = content height + padding + border`.

```
#box-example {  box-sizing: border-box;}
```