### Color Name Keywords

Color name keywords can be used to set color property values for elements in CSS.

```
h1 {  color: aqua;} li {  color: khaki;}
```

### CSS Color Alpha Values

_Alpha values_ determine the transparency of colors in CSS. Alpha values can be set for both RGB and HSL colors by using `rgba()` and `hsla()` and providing a fourth value representing alpha. Alpha values can range between `0.0` (totally transparent) and `1.0` (totally opaque).

The CSS `transparent` value can also be used to create a fully transparent element.

```
.midground {  background-color: rgba(0, 255, 0, 0.5);} .foreground {  background-color: hsla(34, 100%, 50%, 0.1);} .transparent {  color: transparent;}
```

### CSS Hexadecimal Colors

CSS colors can be represented in _hexadecimal_ (or _hex_) notation. Hexadecimal digits can represent sixteen different values using `0`-`9` and `a`-`f`.

Hexadecimal colors are composed of 6 characters–each group of two represents a value between 0 and 255 for red, green, or blue. For example `#ff0000` is all red, no green, and no blue.

When both characters of all three colors are repeated, hex colors can be abbreviated to only three values, so `#0000ff` could also be represented as `#00f`.

```
.red {  color: #ff0000;} .short-blue {  color: #00f;}
```

### CSS HSL Colors

CSS colors can be declared with the _HSL_ color system using `hsl()` syntax. This syntax contains three values: _hue_ (the color value itself), _saturation_ (intensity), and _lightness_.

Hue values range from 0 to 360 while saturation and lightness values are represented as percentages.

```
.light-blue {  background-color: hsl(200, 70%, 50%);}
```

### CSS rgb() Colors

CSS colors can be declared with _RGB colors_ using `rgb()` syntax.

`rgb()` should be supplied with three values representing red, green, and blue. These values range can from 0 to 255.

```
.hot-pink {  color: rgb(249, 2, 171);} .green {  color: rgb(0, 255, 0);}
```