Learn Java: Loops
# Using For Loops

Even though we can write `while` loops that accomplish the same task, `for` loops are useful because they help us remember to increment our counter — something that is easy to forget when we increment with a `while` loop.

Leaving out that line of code would cause an infinite loop — yikes!

Fortunately, equipped with our new understanding of `for` loops, we can help prevent infinite loops in our own code.

It’s important to be aware that, if we don’t create the correct `for` loop header, we can cause the iteration to loop one too many or one too few times; this occurrence is known as an “off by one” error.

For example, imagine we wanted to find the sum of the first ten numbers and wrote the following code:

```java
int sum = 0;
for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  sum += i
}
```

This code would produce an incorrect value of `45`. We skipped adding `10` to `sum` because our loop control variable started with a value of `0` and stopped the iteration after it had a value of `9`. We were off by one! We could fix this by changing the condition of our loop to be `i <= 10;` or `i < 11;`.

These errors can be tricky because, while they do not always produce an error in the terminal, they can cause some miscalculations in our code. These are called logical errors — the code runs fine, but it didn’t do what you expected it to do.

---

Exercise:

```java
class Coffee {
  
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    
    int cupsOfCoffee = 1;
    
    while (cupsOfCoffee <= 100) {
      
      System.out.println("Fry drinks cup of coffee #" + cupsOfCoffee);
      cupsOfCoffee++;
      
    }
    
  }
  
}
```

**1.**

We’ve provided a `while` loop that loops from `1` to `100` outputting a string on each iteration. Refactor (rewrite) this code as a `for` loop.

Remember, the syntax of a `for` loop looks like:
```java
for (int i = 0; i < 5; i++) {
 
  // code that will run
 
}
```

```java
class Coffee {
  
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    
    for (int cupsOfCoffee = 1; cupsOfCoffee <= 100; cupsOfCoffee++) {
      
      System.out.println("Fry drinks cup of coffee #" + cupsOfCoffee);
      
    }
    
  }
  
}
```