Learn Java: Loops
# break and continue

If we ever want to exit a loop before it finishes all its iterations or want to skip one of the iterations, we can use the `break` and `continue` keywords.

The `break` keyword is used to exit, or break, a loop. Once `break` is executed, the loop will stop iterating. For example:

```java
for (int i = 0; i < 10; i++) {
  System.out.println(i);
  if (i == 4) {
    break;
  }
}
```

Even though the loop was set to iterate until the condition `i < 10` is `false`, the above code will output the following because we used `break`:

```
0
1
2
3
4
```

The `continue` keyword can be placed inside of a loop if we want to skip an iteration. If `continue` is executed, the current loop iteration will immediately end, and the next iteration will begin. We can use the `continue` keyword to skip any even valued iteration:

```java
int[] numbers = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5};
 
for (int i = 0; i < numbers.length; i++) {
  if (numbers[i] % 2 == 0) {
    continue;
  }
  System.out.println(numbers[i]);
}
```

This program would output the following:

```
1
3
5
```

In this case, if a number is even, we hit a `continue` statement, which skips the rest of that iteration, so the print statement is skipped. As a result, we only see odd numbers print.

**Keep Reading: AP Computer Science A Students**

Loops can exist all throughout our code - including inside a method. If the `return` keyword was executed inside a loop contained in a method, then the loop iteration would be stopped and the method/constructor would be exited.

For example, we have a method called `checkForJacket()` that takes in an array of `String`s. If any of the elements are equivalent to the `String` value `"jacket"`, the method will return `true`:

```java
public static boolean checkForJacket(String[] lst) {
  for (int i = 0; i < lst.length; i++) {
    System.out.println(lst[i]);
    if (lst[i] == "jacket") {
      return true;
    }
  }
  return false;
} 
 
public static void main(String[] args) {
  String[] suitcase = {"shirt", "jacket", "pants", "socks"};   
  System.out.println(checkForJacket(suitcase));
}```

As soon as an element equals `"jacket"`, `return true;` is executed. This causes the loop to stop and the compiler to exit `checkForJacket()`. Running this code would output the following:

```
shirt
jacket
true
```

---

Exercise:

```java
class Numbers {
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    for (int i = 0; i < 100; i++) {
      // Add your code below


      
    }
  }
}
```

**1.** Take a look at the `for` loop in the code editor. It starts its iteration at `0` and continues to iterate until `i < 100` is `false`.

Inside the loop, create a condition that checks if `i` is **not** divisible by `5`. If the condition is `true`, skip the iteration. Outside the condition statement, print `i`. The final solution **should not** contain an `else` statement.

The only numbers that should be printed are those that are divisible by 5!

Hint: Inside the `if` statement, use the `continue` keyword.

```java

```