### `pwd` Print Working Directory

The shell command `pwd` displays the file path from the root directory to the current working directory.

```
$ pwd/Users/sonny/Downloads
```

### `mkdir` Make Directory

The shell command `mkdir` is used to make a new directory in the filesystem according to its argument. If a file path is given, the new directory will be placed at the end. Otherwise, it will create a new directory in the current working directory.

```
$ mkdir new-directory$ ls old-directory    new-directory
```

### `ls` List

The shell command `ls` is used to list the contents of a directory. If no arguments are given, it will list the contents of the current working directory.

```
$ ls Desktopresume.pdfphoto.png
```

### `cd` Change Directory

The shell command `cd` is used to move throughout the filesystem of a computer. It accepts a variety of arguments:

-   Full file paths.
-   Names of children of the current directory.
-   `..` the parent of the current directory.

```
$ cd some-directory$ cd ..
```

### Filesystem Structure

A computer’s filesystem organizes the data stored by a computer, so that it can be easily retrieved by the user.

Files are generally represented in a tree-like structure, in which any parent directory can have any number of children. The root directory is then found at the base of the tree.

### `touch` Create New File

The shell command `touch` creates a new file in the current working directory with the name provided.

```
$ touch grocery-list.txt
```

### The Command Line

The command line allows a user to navigate the filesystem and run built-in programs or custom scripts. In Unix, the command line interface is called Bash, and the shell prompt is the `$`.

```
$ 
```

### Helper Commands

Helper commands for the command line include:

-   `clear` to clear the terminal
-   tab to autocomplete the line
-   ↑ and ↓ to cycle through previous commands