### Column Constraints

Column constraints are the rules applied to the values of individual columns:

-   `PRIMARY KEY` constraint can be used to uniquely identify the row.
-   `UNIQUE` columns have a different value for every row.
-   `NOT NULL` columns must have a value.
-   `DEFAULT` assigns a default value for the column when no value is specified.

There can be only one `PRIMARY KEY` column per table and multiple `UNIQUE` columns.

```
CREATE TABLE student (  id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY,  name TEXT UNIQUE,  grade INTEGER NOT NULL,  age INTEGER DEFAULT 10);
```

### `CREATE TABLE` Statement

The `CREATE TABLE` statement creates a new table in a database. It allows one to specify the name of the table and the name of each column in the table.

```
CREATE TABLE table_name (  column1 datatype,  column2 datatype,  column3 datatype);
```

### `INSERT` Statement

The `INSERT INTO` statement is used to add a new record (row) to a table.

It has two forms as shown:

-   Insert into columns in order.
-   Insert into columns by name.

```
-- Insert into columns in order:INSERT INTO table_nameVALUES (value1, value2); -- Insert into columns by name:INSERT INTO table_name (column1, column2)VALUES (value1, value2);
```

### `ALTER TABLE` Statement

The `ALTER TABLE` statement is used to modify the columns of an existing table. When combined with the `ADD COLUMN` clause, it is used to add a new column.

```
ALTER TABLE table_nameADD column_name datatype;
```

### `DELETE` Statement

The `DELETE` statement is used to delete records (rows) in a table. The `WHERE` clause specifies which record or records that should be deleted. If the `WHERE` clause is omitted, all records will be deleted.

```
DELETE FROM table_nameWHERE some_column = some_value;
```

### `UPDATE` Statement

The `UPDATE` statement is used to edit records (rows) in a table. It includes a `SET` clause that indicates the column to edit and a `WHERE` clause for specifying the record(s).

```
UPDATE table_nameSET column1 = value1, column2 = value2WHERE some_column = some_value;
```