Learn Java: Variables
# Introduction

Let’s say we need a program that connects a user with new jobs. We need the user’s name, their salary, and their employment status. All of these pieces of information are stored in our program.

We store information in _variables_, named locations in memory.

Naming a piece of information allows us to use that name later, accessing the information we stored.

Variables also give context and meaning to the data we’re storing. The value `42` could be someone’s age, a weight in pounds, or the number of orders placed. With a name, we **know** the value `42` is `age`, `weightInPounds`, or `numOrdersPlaced`.

In Java, we specify the type of information we’re storing. _Primitive datatypes_ are types of data built-in to the Java system. The three main primitive types we’ll cover are `int`, `double`, and `boolean`; this lesson will introduce these built-in types and more.

We must _declare_ a variable to reference it within our program. Declaring a variable requires that we specify the type and name:

```java
// datatype variableName
int age;
double salaryRequirement;
boolean isEmployed;
```

The names of the variables above are `age`, `salaryRequirement`, and `isEmployed`.

These variables don’t have any associated value. To assign a value to a variable, we use the assignment operator `=`:

```java
age = 85;
```

Now, `age` has a value of `85`. When code is used to represent a fixed value, like `85`, it is referred to as a _literal_.

It’s also common to declare a variable and assign it a value in one line!

For example, to assign `2011` to a variable named `yearCodecademyWasFounded` of type `int`, we write:

```java
int yearCodecademyWasFounded = 2011;
```

---

Exercise:

```java
public class Creator {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
    String name = "James Gosling";
    int yearCreated = 1995;
	}
}
```

**1.** In **Creator.java**, we have defined some variables related to James Gosling, the creator of Java.

Inside `main()`, use `System.out.println()` to print out the variable `name`.

Hint: We do not use double quotes to print a variable because we want to print what the variable references.
```java
String cat = "Buffy";
 
System.out.println("cat");
// prints cat
 
System.out.println(cat);
// prints Buffy
```

```java
public class Creator {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
    String name = "James Gosling";
    int yearCreated = 1995;

    System.out.println(name);
	}
}
```

**2.** Use the same command to print out `yearCreated`.

Hint: We have to write print statements after declaring and initializing the variable:
```java
System.out.println(cat);
String cat = "Buffy";
//this code will have an error, since cat is not defined yet!
```
```java
String cat = "Buffy";
System.out.println(cat);
//this code will run, since cat is assigned the value of "Buff"!
```

```java
public class Creator {
	public static void main(String[] args) {
    String name = "James Gosling";
    int yearCreated = 1995;

    System.out.println(name);
    System.out.println(yearCreated);
	}
}
```