Learn Java: Variables
# String

So far, we have learned primitive data types, which are the simplest types of data with no built-in behavior. Our programs will also use `String`s, which are _objects_, instead of primitives. Objects have built-in behavior.

`String`s hold sequences of characters. We’ve already seen instances of a `String`, for example, when we printed out `"Hello World"`. There are two ways to create a `String` object: using a `String` literal or calling the `String` class to create a new `String` object.

A _String literal_ is any sequence of characters enclosed in double-quotes (`""`). Like primitive-type variables, we declare a `String` variable by specifying the type first:

```java
String greeting = "Hello World";
```

We could also create a _new String object_ by calling the `String` class when declaring a `String` like so:

```java
String salutations = new String("Hello World");
```

There are subtle differences in behavior depending on whether you create a `String` using a `String` literal or a new `String` object. We’ll dive into those later, but for now, we’ll almost always be using `String` literals.

**Keep Reading: AP Computer Science A Students**

Certain symbols, known as escape sequences, have an alternative use in Java print statements. Escape sequences are interpreted differently by the compiler than other characters. Escape characters begin with the character `\`.

There are three escape sequences to be aware of for the AP exam.

The `\"` escape sequence allows us to add quotation marks `"` to a `String` value. :

```java
System.out.println("\"Hello World\"");// Prints: "Hello World"
```

If we didn’t use an escape sequence, then Java would think we’re using `"` to end the String!

Using the `\\` escape sequence allows us to place backslashes in our `String` text:

```java
System.out.println("This is the backslash symbol: \\");
// Prints: This is the backslash symbol: \
```

This is similar to the last example - just like `"`, `\` usually has a special meaning. In this case, `\` is used to start an escape sequence. Well, if we don’t want to start an escape sequence and just want a `\` in our String, then we’ll use `\\` — we’re using an escape sequence to say that we don’t want `\` to be interpreted as the start of an escape sequence. It’s a little mind-bending!

Finally, if we place a `\n` escape sequence in a `String`, the compiler will output a new line of text:

```java
System.out.println("Hello\nGoodbye");
/*
Prints:
Hello
Goodbye
*/
```

You can think of `\n` as the escape sequence for “newline”.

---

Exercise:

```java
public class Song {
	public static void main(String[] args) {   

	}
}
```

**1.** Create a variable called `openingLyrics` that holds `"Yesterday, all my troubles seemed so far away"`.

```java
public class Song {
	public static void main(String[] args) {   
		String openingLyrics = "Yesterday, all my troubles seemed so far away";
	}
}
```

**2.** Call `System.out.println()` to print out `openingLyrics`.

```java
public class Song {
	public static void main(String[] args) {   
	    String openingLyrics = "Yesterday, all my troubles seemed so far away";
	    System.out.println(openingLyrics);
	}
}
```