Learn Java: Variables

Static Checking

The Java programming language has _static typing_. Java programs will not compile if a variable is assigned a value of an incorrect type. This is a _bug_, specifically a type declaration bug.

Bugs are dangerous! They cause our code to crash, or produce incorrect results. Static typing helps because bugs are caught during programming rather than during execution of the code.

The program will not compile if the declared type of the variable does not match the type of the assigned value:

```java
int greeting = "Hello World";
```

The String `"Hello World"` cannot be held in a variable of type `int`.

For the example above, we see an error in the console at compilation:

```
error: incompatible types: String cannot be converted to int
	int greeting = "Hello World";
```

When bugs are not caught at compilation, they interrupt execution of the code by causing _runtime errors_. The program will crash.

Java’s static typing helps programmers avoid runtime errors, and thus have much safer code that is free from bugs.

---

Exercise:

```java
public class Mess {
	public static void main(String[] args) {   
		String year = 2001;
	    double title = "Shrek";
	    int genre = 'C';
	    boolean runtime = 1.58;
	    char isPG = true;
	}
}
```

**1.** In the **Mess.java** file, we have declared a bunch of variables with the wrong type. Try to compile the file using the command:

```
javac Mess.java
```

**2.** Change the types of the variables so that they correspond with the type of the assignment values.

For example, `year` is assigned `2001`, so it should be an `int`.

```java
public class Mess {
	public static void main(String[] args) {   
		int year = 2001;
	    String title = "Shrek";
	    char genre = 'C';
	    double runtime = 1.58;
	    boolean isPG = true;
	}
}
```

**3.** Compile the file again. Look at how it compiles with no errors now!

Hint: You can check that the file has compiled by typing in `ls` in the terminal. If it compiled successfully, you should see:
```
Mess.class  Mess.java
```

This output means that **Mess.java** compiled into **Mess.class**!