Learn Java: Variables
# Naming

Let’s imagine we’re storing a user’s name for their profile. Which code example do you think is better?

```java
String data = "Delilah";
```

or

```java
String nameOfUser = "Delilah";
```

While both of these will compile, the second example is much easier to understand. Readers of the code will know the purpose of the value: `"Delilah"`.

Naming variables according to convention leads to clear, readable, and maintainable code. When someone else, or our future self, reads the code, there is no confusion about the purpose of a variable.

In Java, variable names are case-sensitive. `myHeight` is a different variable from `myheight`. The length of a variable name is unlimited, but we should keep it concise while keeping the meaning clear.

A variable starts with a valid letter, or a `$`, or a `_`. No other symbols or numbers can begin a variable name. `1stPlace` and `*Gazer` are not valid variable names.

Variable names of only one word are spelled in all lowercase letters. Variable names of more than one word have the first letter lowercase while the beginning letter of each subsequent word is capitalized. This style of capitalization is called _camelCase_.

```java
// good style
boolean isHuman;

// bad styles
// no capitalization for new word
boolean ishuman;

// first word should be lowercase
boolean IsHuman;

// underscores don't separate words
boolean is_human;
```

---

Exercise:

```java
public class BadNames {
	public static void main(String[] args) {   
		String 1stName = "Samira";
	    String blah = "Smith";
	    String .com = "samira@google.com";
	    int salaryexpectation = 100000;
	    int year_of_birth = 1955;
    
	    System.out.println("The program runs!");
	}
}
```

**1.** In the **BadNames.java** file, we declared variables with confusing names. Run the file and look at the error messages you get when trying to compile.

**2.** Some of these variable names are _illegal_! Change the ones that are preventing the file from compiling.

```java
public class BadNames {
	public static void main(String[] args) {   
		String firstName = "Samira";
	    String lastName = "Smith";
	    String email = "samira@google.com";
	    int salaryExpectation = 100000;
	    int birthYear = 1955;
    
	    System.out.println("The program runs!");
	}
}
```