Learn Java: Variables
# Review

Creating and filling variables is a powerful concept that allows us to keep track of all kinds of data in our program.

In this lesson, we learned how to create and print several different data types in Java, which you’ll use as you create bigger and more complex programs.

We covered:

-   `int`, which stores whole numbers.
-   `double`, which stores bigger whole numbers and decimal numbers.
-   `boolean`, which stores `true` and `false`.
-   `char`, which stores single characters using single quotes.
-   `String`, which stores multiple characters using double quotes.
-   _Static typing_, which is one of the safety features of Java.
-   Variable naming conventions.

Practice declaring variables and assigning values to make sure you have a solid foundation for learning more complicated and exciting Java concepts!

---

Exercise:

```java
public class MyProfile {
	public static void main(String[] args) {   

	}
}
```

**1.** The file **MyProfile.java** contains a class that represents your hiring profile as presented to potential employers.

In the `main()` method, create a variable called `name` that holds your name, as a sequence of characters.

Hint: If we were defining a variable called `userID` that would hold a string of letters, we would use a line like this:
```java
String userID = "myUsername";
```

You can use the same sort of declaration and initialization for your `name` variable!

```java
public class MyProfile {
	public static void main(String[] args) {   
	    String name = "Hayden Gilbert";
	}
}
```

**2.** Create a variable called `age` that holds your age as a whole number.

```java
public class MyProfile {
	public static void main(String[] args) {   
	    String name = "Hayden Gilbert";
	    int age = 26;
	}
}
```

**3.** Create a variable called `desiredSalary` that holds your desired salary per year to a precision of two decimal points.

Hint: If we were defining a variable called `gpa` that would hold a decimal number, we would use a line like this:
```java
double gpa = 5.1;
```

You can use the same sort of declaration and initialization for your `desiredSalary` variable!

```java
public class MyProfile {
	public static void main(String[] args) {   
	    String name = "Hayden Gilbert";
	    int age = 26;
	    double desiredSalary = 85000.00;
	}
}
```

**4.** Create a variable called `gender` that holds a single character, `m` (male), `f` (female), `n` (for none), or `o` (for other).

```java
public class MyProfile {
	public static void main(String[] args) {   
	    String name = "Hayden Gilbert";
	    int age = 26;
	    double desiredSalary = 85000.00;
	    char gender = 'M';
	}
}
```

**5.** Create a variable called `lookingForJob` that holds whether or not you are currently open to job offers.

Hint:If we were defining a variable called `isLightOn` that would hold either true or false, we would use a line like this:
```
boolean isLightOn = true;
```

You can use the same sort of declaration and initialization for your `lookingForJob` variable!

```java
public class MyProfile {
	public static void main(String[] args) {   
	    String name = "Hayden Gilbert";
	    int age = 26;
	    double desiredSalary = 85000.00;
	    char gender = 'M';
	    boolean lookingForJob = true;
	}
}
```

